At long last, I've found you!
I must admit,
it's impressive that
you were able to seek out
my wavelength amid
the sea of fragments.
[chuckles]
You can hardly imagine
how disappointed I was
to learn that Vier's memories
had somehow been lost to her.
[gasps]
What do you mean to do?
Isn't that obvious?
Each of us has our piece out
on the field of play.
'Tis only natural that
we should watch with delight
as they tear each other apart
in the course of the game.
[gasps]
Rika!
[EUA chuckles]
What a delectable reaction.
If there were no players,
needless to say,
there could hardly be a game.
[thudding]
[pants]
It's not fair.
Why do I have to go
through this alone?
Watching my friends
die again and again.
[RIKA]
What horrible sin did I commit?
What was my crime?
What have I done to deserve
eternity in this hell?
[KEIICHI]
It's just us now, Rika.
Hurry up and tell me
how I get rid of them.
These parasites inside my body.
How do I kill them all?
I know you know more about
them than you're letting on,
so tell me how to get rid of
these filthy maggots already!
[laughs]
I know what you need,
and it's right in front of you.
[KEIICHI] Don't make it a game,
just tell me!
Right now, dammit!
I can feel the things
crawling down my throat,
I'm almost choking on 'em!
And this itching is
going to drive me insane!
It's in here.
Huh?
What you're looking
for is in my head.
All you have to do
is crack open my skull
and eat my brains,
and the itching will stop.
[laughs]
I found it!
I finally found the cure!
Rika?
I hope you saw that,
you damn bugs!
Now I'll get
rid of you for good‐‐
Why is it so freakin' itchy?
This'll work. Wait, no.
This'll be easier.
[glass breaking]
[SOLDIER A]
Get him! Restrain him!
Get outta my way!
Just leave me alone
and let me get these
damn bugs out of my body!
I can... I can
feel them crawling!
They just keep
coming and coming!
[screams]
[HANYUU] What is this?
What happened to this world?
What is this suffering you've
placed upon these people?
[chuckles]
If it pleases you not,
then allow me to assure you
that what you have seen
thus far was only a prelude.
[KEIICHI]
Let go of me!
What is Satoko...?
Oh.
Get your hands
off me, you bastards!
They're back, I can
feel them crawling out!
[SOLDIER C]
Don't resist!
It would appear things have
gotten rather lively in here.
Poor, lonesome little Rika.
That frail heart of yours
has nobody to hold it
together anymore,
in any world, in any fragment.
You have no one left but me.
[HANYUU gasps]
It can't be.
Rika, the best thing
to do is give up.
You'll find happiness.
But understand
you'll only find it with me.
I'm going to make
you understand that,
by any means necessary!
What madness is this?
You granted
your power to Satoko?
Indeed, much as you once
granted your power to Rika.
[HANYUU]
I did.
It was a grave
error in judgment,
and now, I've borne witness
to your own mistake!
Oh? Then you believe I act now
out of an error in judgment?
I would not speak
so freely, my dear failure.
I am not powerless yet!
There is still
more that I can do!
[EUA]
Long ago, you were able
to divert one of Takano's
bullets from its destined course
and protect the
lives of your friends.
Surely you knew
better than to expect
another such opportunity
to arise by chance.
[HANYUU] The power that
allowed me to save them
was more than random chance.
It's beyond your understanding!
[EUA]
Hmph.
Yet still, such insolence.
[gasps]
[EUA] Though it pains me
to admit, you are a part of me.
And so, I will grant
you a front‐row seat
to the spectacle.
Ahh, you're finally
awake, I see.
You nearly slept straight
through the sunset.
What's going on?
Satoko.
You looked so
restless as you slept.
I can hardly imagine the
nightmares you were having.
And your fever is awful.
Please, let me take care of you.
I'll stay here by your side.
I won't leave
till you're well again.
Satoko.
Poor, suffering girl.
Please, someone,
help me understand it.
Why is this happening?
What did I do?
[SATOKO] I can't know
what you saw in your dreams.
But whatever it was,
you know it meant something.
Huh?
[SATOKO] There's a reason you
have the dreams you do, Rika.
A reason that's
very close to your heart.
Reason?
There is no reason.
There's nothing that
could justify this pain.
Tell me.
Why do I have to suffer?
[SATOKO]
Think.
Do you genuinely not understand
why these awful
dreams haunt you?
[RIKA]
Satoko.
What are you saying?
It hurts everywhere.
They don't stop
and they won't allow you
to sleep soundly either.
Can you really not see
why they're so relentless?
[RIKA]
What's happening?
Rika, this is
the work of the curse.
What does that mean?
What curse? I don't‐‐
Ahh!
What is this?
I can't feel my legs.
Can't move.
Please, Satoko.
Let me show you.
[gasps]
[screams]
That's right, Rika.
Watanagashi is here.
[HANYUU]
Stop! Don't go any further!
Satoko!
But are you not
Oyashiro, himself?
Your newest servant
in the mortal realm
is preparing for
your offertory ritual.
It's only right that
you should observe it
to its completion, is it not?
[SATOKO]
You must confront the truth.
It's not through chance
or divine whim
that you're plagued
by these nightmares.
Please. Satoko, stop this!
[SATOKO]
You gravely sinned.
And you will suffer forevermore.
Stop this! Make it stop!
Silence. I will not abide this.
You shall not make demands
and you shall not
avert your gaze again.
[laughs]
Well, perhaps I'll grant
you use of your mouth.
Rika! Rika! Rika.
I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry.
I'm so sorry. Forgive me!
[squelching]
Please, you can't allow
this to go on anymore!
You have to make it stop
or Rika's mind will break!
[laughs]
[HANYUU]
You can't. You can't! You can't!
Please, I'm begging you to stop!
Stop making
Satoko do this to her!
[laughs]
It's too cruel.
She was Rika's best friend,
the one who supported her
through thick and thin
and they mean
everything to each other!
So please, you can't!
[laughs]
You are as unceasingly
entertaining as they are!
Please, you have to
stop making Rika suffer.
You have to stop her,
I'm begging you!
Forgive me.
I know that I was wrong.
[gasps]
Huh? Rika?
I'm so sorry, Satoko.
Never meant to hurt you,
but I drove you to this.
[SATOKO]
All I want is to live here
in Hinamizawa
together with you, Rika.
I would never
need anything else.
Please forgive me.
I forgive you and
since you repented.
I know that Lord Oyashiro
can forgive you, too.
Good. I'll get
things right, next time.
Keep those words,
and burn them deep
into your heart.
Deep enough that they're
certain to stay with you
when you wake up.
Rika.
[SATOKO sighs] Wasn't
that such a fun day, Rika?
Yes, almost too much
fun for me to handle.
Uh. You said you
needed to talk to me
about something before.
What was it?
[RIKA]
You honestly may not be able
to make sense of
what I'm saying.
If you can't,
I would at least
like you to hear it all.
Rika, please don't.
You see,
there were these
two dreams I had before
that both seemed years long.
The first one, felt like pure
torture as I was dreaming it.
But when I remember
that dream now,
all the wonderous moments
come rushing back to me.
And in the second, I let all
those wonders pass me by.
I chased my selfish desires
and I suffered for it.
That suffering
never seemed to end.
I beg you.
Don't be deceived.
But I was a fool.
For some reason,
I thought I wanted to leave.
Rika.
I can hardly guess
what kind of things
you've seen in your dreams,
but whatever may happen,
I am always going
to be your friend.
Always.
The whole village loves you.
We all do and we always will.
[HANYUU] You have
to realize that this world
they've brought
you to is not right!
[SATOKO]
It's over.
You're not gonna have
any more nightmares, okay?
[sobs]
Satoko!
It's a lie.
A cheap imitation
of the world you chose
and the future
you won for yourself!
So, please, don't be deceived!
[EUA] However sharply
your cries pierce the void,
they won't reach the cat,
nor will she recognize that
she suffers at Satoko's hands.
For indeed, she has
no reason to suspect her.
[inaudible]
[KEIICHI] Wait, you
actually yelled at him?
[RENA] Mm‐hmm. He needed
someone to yell at him,
with the way he keeps coming
home drunk every night!
[laughs]
And if it ended up being you,
I'm sure he got an earful
he's never gonna forget!
Fair, but like, that's your dad.
[SATOKO]
Really now, Keiichi.
At the risk of
coming off as crude,
harsh words can be the
least painful resolution
to a family issue.
And I'm not alone.
I talked with his friend Rina,
and she promised me
she would help.
Awesome.
You worked hard, huh?
[RENA]
Mm‐hmm.
[SATOKO]
And maybe, you don't quite
understand how
happiness actually works.
Even the smallest moments
of pain can leave marks
on our hearts that will
last the rest of our lives.
And yet, those tiny moments
of happiness roll right off us
and when we forget about them,
we forget all the ways we're
blessed until eventually,
even being perfectly
content leaves us yearning
for some greater happiness.
How sad it would be,
not to let yourself be happy
for fear that it can't last.
Aren't you happy
right now, Rika?
And don't you think that
should count for something?
[SATOKO]
Hey, promise me you won't leave.
Okay, Rika?
I promise.
My home will forever
be this village.
And I'll always be here
at your side, Satoko.
What was that memory?
Tomorrow is...
‐‐[SATOKO] Rika!
‐‐Huh?
We should really be
heading home now!
'Kay! Sorry, but could you
just give me one more minute?
Are you ready for this?
Gotcha! Now. Take this!
[RENA]
Satoko! Stay away!
[RIKA shudders]
[RIKA]
Why... Why won't they stop?
These memories.
Happy birthday, Satoko!
Surprise!
Yeah, happy birthday!
Satoko, happy birthday!
[MION]
Mm! And many more!
Wow, you guys.
Rika really went
out of her way
to pull together
a party for you!
Here, take a look at this.
[SATOKO] I appreciate
all of your efforts, I just...
I know your
birthday can bring back
a lot of painful memories
that make it hard
for you to celebrate.
Yeah, it does.
[RIKA] But hopefully it'll be
better if we all at least try.
Forgive me.
I feel so silly now
for how I've been acting.
All of my friends are here
to celebrate my birthday.
So, what could I have
to be unhappy about?
Great. Now to open these!
You should open my gift now!
Cute!
Oh, Mion. Thank you so much.
But before we leave,
I have another
present to give you.
[SATOKO]
Goodness. There's more?
It was all I could afford,
but I hope you'll like it.
[SATOKO] My! I'm shaking
with anticipation!
Huh?
[RENA]
Satoko?
How could you have known
what was in this box?
[chortles]
I'm shocked that you would even
attempt such an obvious ploy
against the undisputed trap
master of our game club!
Huh?!
[RIKA] It's true that I had been
planning to play a prank on you
with this gift,
up until last night.
Rika, dear?
Are you quite
thoroughly deceased?
[RIKA]
I'll ask again.
How could you have known that?
[HANYUU] A great power
will lead her to the truth.
A miracle.
[gasps]
[RIKA] Next time:
"Kagurashi‐hen, Part 3."